Hello everyone and welcome to the date and time stamps lecture in this lecture we're going to learn
how to work with date information and time stamp information with our let's go out and jump to our studio
and see how to work with this.
All right so here we are our studio and let's start off by discussing what a normal day object actually
looks like.
We can do this by calling capital S y s dot date close parentheses and that will return today's current
date.
So notice that the current day isn't a particular standard time format and that is four years or four
digits for the year dash two digits for the month that two digits for today's date.
So this is 2016 June 15.
And that's today's date which I called using as a start date.
We can go ahead and set that as a variable today as we start date.
And if I check the class of today it's a data object.
So it's not just the character string.
It's an actual date object that is aware that it has a year a month a day information inside of it.
Now a lot of times when you're importing data you're going to have your data as character strings.
So for example you may have a character string that looks like this.
Maybe it's 1990.
Let's go in and say January 1st 1990 and if I checked the class of C will return a character class.
If I actually want this to be a dates class I'll need to use the as method and call date on it.
Now let's go and save that as we'll just say my date.
And now if I took the class of my day notice a Date object.
The only reason I was actually able to convert this easily with as that date was because this character
was already in the standard format of 4 digits for a year a dash two digits for the month dash and in
two digits for that day.
Most times your data is not going to be so nicely presented to you in the sort of standard time format
or date format.
For instance if you had to do this as dates and maybe had your date information in a format like this
.
November 3rd 1990 notice to get an error and the error you get is that character string is not in a
standard an ambiguous format meaning this is not a standard format.
However we can actually add parameters and formatting arguments to her as that date function.
In order to accept this and convert it to a Date object I'm going to go ahead and clear the consul and
try to reassign my date.
I want to go ahead and say my date and assign it as that date.
I'll go ahead and pass again that string that wasn't in a standard format.
Let's say November 3rd 1990.
And the way I can tell the as Date function to accept this is by passing a format argument
and you're going to go on to say format and then you're going to pasan a character string of the format
your day isn't.
So I know that the format of this data is three letters for the month a dash two digits for the month
or the day excuse me and then two digits for the year.
So my coach looks something like this percentage sign B dash percentage sign d percentage sign year
and notices are all lowercase.
And I was actually successfully able to convert this string into a date object so if I say my date notice
it's now standardized.
So you may be wondering how the heck did I know these codes.
And how does that actually work.
So if I want to go out and copy and paste the codes from the notebook for the lecture then you can reference
it yourself.
But I'm going to leave it here in the script.
Let me just comment.
All of them out.
So we don't get any errors here and we can actually discuss all of these.
So the formatting or the format argument for as Date Function is going to accept a character string
in the same format of the character you're trying to convert to a Date object.
And what that basically means is you can use the as that date in combination with the format argument
to convert any string representation of a date to an actual date object which is super useful for time
series analysis.
So for example let's say I have as Dot dates and my character string looks something like this it looks
like let's say it's going to say June comma 0 1 comma 2002.
Now I just need to add a format.
Arguments equals and then a character string with the base format of the character that I trying to
convert in this case I have the full month.
So the full month name that's going to be percentage sign capital B.
And at the end of this lecture I'll discuss how you can actually find all these codes.
They're presented for you in the notes but you can actually find them in the documentation to help call
and I'll show you that at the end of the lecture.
For now we'll just use these notes.
So the first thing I have is a full month.
So I'm going to say percentage sign capital B.
Next thing I have is a comma after that.
I have two digits for the day.
So of the month.
That's all a number that's going to be percentage sign lowercase D.
And then finally you have the full four digit year which is going to be percentage sign capital Y
and now notice I was able to convert June comma's 0 1 common 2002 to the standard date format.
So hopefully now you can begin to see how this would be super useful if you have time or date information
inside it.
Let's say some sort of Excel spreadsheet that you were trying to import into our.
OK.
Now let's talk about work time information.
Are uses the posek C-T or post-sex LTE data types to store time information.
That's capital P O S I x c t or LTE.
And what that stands for is a portable operating system interface.
The sort of object types are primarily used with Unix systems but they're available on all other operating
systems as well.
And as far as what we need to know we can just use the command as Dot Hasek's C-T or Piel s i x C-T
to convert strings into data type or a time stamp information which we can use for time series analysis
or any other sort of analysis where we actually need to know specific time stamps and have time information
inside of that object.
So let's go ahead and try passing a character here passing a character string let's say 11 0 2 0 3 and
I can add a format arguments and we'll discuss how we can actually get these codes in a little bit.
But I'll go ahead and show an example.
So this character has hours minutes seconds Samis and percentage signs to show the formatting codes
.
And notice I get a quick warning message numerical expression has 10 elements only the first use.
And that's because there is quite a bit more information here.
So that fills in information.
I only gave it time information so it went ahead and it filled in the year in my time zone.
So keep that in mind.
I'll do that as I use this as that posek city in order to convert just a simple time stamp information
.
If it doesn't have that information well go ahead and add it in.
So that's just something to keep in mind.
However usually we actually won't be using this sort of as the host city function.
Will be using the s t r p time or stript time function.
Let's go ahead and call help on this.
So you can pull up the documentation
and the squid and pull the documentation tab.
So if we say help strip time you'll notice you get a date time conversion functions to and from character
.
And this is the main piece of our documentation going to be using in order to figure out what the codes
for formatting are.
So if you keep scrolling down here here you see a full list of all the codes and what they actually
stand for.
So for example we're using H capital H.
So percent of St. h it's maybe a little small to read here but you can go ahead and type in help stript
time yourself to check this out.
But capital H.
Percentages are percent capital H stands for hours as a dustball number.
And for example if we go ahead and scroll back up here to see lower case D which we're using we're using
as the date we see it stands for a day of month as a decimal number.
So whenever you actually need the codes for formatting how to use them or information on them you can
just say help strip time and ship time is going to be your basic time conversion function for to and
from character strings or character values to convert them into actually time stamp information objects
.
So this is going to be the main tool we use from now on as far as converting things to time stamp information
So let me go ahead and show you a quick example of what that actually looks like.
You're going to go ahead and use it almost exactly the same way as we're just using as they are or as
that posek CTE you're going to go ahead to say stript time in the character string you want to try to
strip time from and you'll notice if I just say 11 or two or three I'll get an error because format
is missing.
So you still need to put a format here even with strip time.
So you can say format equals and you can then go ahead to just pass character string with the format
.
This case going to be our capital H colon minute capital M them percentage sign capital S for seconds
And again the way to actually get these codes and how to actually construct this string is by using
help strip time and then checking out the help documentation that pops up.
Here you go to scroll down and you essentially just assemble whatever format your string is in.
So usually be applying stript up time using those apply functions we learned earlier in order to convert
a vector or a column full of time stamp information or at least characters that appear to be times into
real time stamp information with dates time zones hour seconds etc..
Ok that's all we've discussed for this lecture on dates and time stamp information.
That's just a quick review of what you should have gotten out of this lecture.
Really if I just clear the consul quickly here all you really need to understand is how to call help
for stript time Fulop to help documentation so you can reference it and even if you scroll all the way
down you see tons of information here as well as just basic examples.
So once you know how to call help strict time you're basically good to go.
And then you should also feel comfortable of calling stript time passing in some sort of day here.
Obviously not the word day but using format to format your day information just like we've been showing
throughout this lecture.
OK.
So that's all there is to it.
Hope you found that useful and I'll see at the next lecture.